CSC 170 Programming and Problem Solving. An introduction to computer programming with an emphasis on learning how to write programs to solve problems. Problems will be taken from a wide range of disciplines.

CSC 270 Data Structures. This course prepares students with the tools and techniques necessary to work on large scale projects. Through the study of classical Data Structures, students will learn the tools and techniques necessary to work on large scale projects. Topics include data structures, asymptotic analysis, object oriented programming, automated testing and debugging tools.

CSC 341 Principles of Programming Languages. Various languages are used to study principles such as methods of representing data types, sequence control, data control, type checking, and run-time storage management. Includes an introduction to language translation and distributed and parallel programming constructs. Emphasizes differences in programming paradigms.

CSC 372 Artificial Intelligence. An introduction to some of the important ideas in artificial intelligence from the point of view of an intelligent agent. Topics include search techniques, knowledge representation, logical systems and automated reasoning, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, and ethical issues related to AI.

CSC 362 Database Systems. A study of the concepts required to design and implement database applications. The course places an emphasis on designing a database in response to organizational needs, and to implementing a database application using a Relational Database Management System, the Structured Query Language, and other programming languages and software systems.

CSC 374 Theory of Computation. An introduction to the study of abstract models of computation and languages and to the use of formal methods in computer science. Topics include finite state automata and regular expressions, context free grammars and pushdown automata, Turing machines, Church's thesis, decision problems, and undecidable problems.

DSC 230 Statistical Modeling. A study of applied regression analysis, emphasizing fundamental statistical concepts as well as applications and interpretations. Topic include probability with a focus on conditional probability, model building, variable transformations, residual analysis, and logistic regression. A strong emphasis will be placed on statistical computing in R as well as developing the ability to professionally communicate findings to audiences of varying levels of statistical understanding.

MAT 130 Introduction to Statistics. An investigation into the mathematical techniques for analyzing and interpreting data with the goal of understanding our world and facilitating informed decision-making processes. The course includes the study of random variables, descriptive statistics, basic probability theory, and inferential statistics. Specific topics include confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, regression, analysis of categorical data, and analysis of variance.

DSC 270 Data Manipulation. This course introduces how to write programs to import and manipulate data using Excel and the Pandas package for Python. It also teaches students the basics of using databases with SQL using Python.

DSC 330 Causal Inference. An exploration of the methods and designs that allow researchers and analysts to examine causal relationships between treatments and responses, particularly when data are from observational studies. Topics include the potential outcomes framework, covariate balancing, propensity score methods, causal graphs, and regression discontinuity designs. The course emphasizes statistical computing in R as well as real-world data analysis and communication.

DSC 340 Applied Machine Learning. This course provides hands-on experience applying machine learning techniques to real-world problems. Students will engage with the data analytics lifecycle, including formulating the problem, preparing data, model building, and evaluation. With the help of computational toolkits, participants will apply various methods such as classification, regression, clustering, and deep learning. Students will also learn how to analyze and assess results and to present their work orally and in writing with the help of data visualization tools. 

DSC 500 Data Science Capstone. This fourth‐year course requires students to formulate and solve a significant data analytics problem in a domain other than data science, computer science, or mathematics. The course brings together students’ studies in data science and involves proposing a problem, developing an analytics plan, performing exploratory data analysis, preparing data for model building, modeling the data using appropriate data analytics tools, and analyzing and presenting results. Throughout the semester, students will work with a domain advisor with expertise in the problem area, as well as with the capstone instructor, who will help shepherd projects to completion and guide students to present their work effectively. The project will culminate in a final paper, oral presentation, and poster presentation. Guest speakers may be arranged to present on a variety of topics.

DLM 120 Imagining the Future: Science Fiction, Ethics, and Us. Science fiction provides glimpses of possible futures and helps us see our present lives from new perspectives. In this course, sci-fi short stories, novels, and films will serve as the backdrop as we discuss how to navigate the ethical challenges and dilemmas of a world in which work, play, priva-cy, relationships, security—even what it means to be human—are in rapid flux. Along the way, through regular presentations, discussion, and debate, we will strengthen our oral communication skills and our confidence as scientifically literate interlocutors navigating complex issues.

PHI 110 Introduction to Philosophy. This course will introduce students to fundamental questions and issues in, as well as the methodology of, philosophy. Topics may include: ethics, political theory, knowledge, personal identity, the mind, free will, race, gender, God, the meaning of life, and the significance of death.

PHI 171 An Introduction to Ethical Thinking. An introduction into how to develop ethical thinking into a properly philosophical and theoretical enterprise. By taking up such controversial topics as circumcision, cannibalism, vegetarianism, animal and human experimentation, abortion, the right to die, environmental ethics, genocide, and others, students will seek deeper understanding of the challenges of ethical problems and the ways in which philosophers try to solve them through the major ethical theories. Along with an understanding of the primary ethical theories, students will gain an appreciation for the everyday practicality of philosophy.

MAT 311 Mathematical Statistics. A calculus-based course in statistics devoted to techniques for analyzing and interpreting data with the goal of understanding our world and facilitating informed decision-making processes. This course is a continuation of MAT 310 that studies applications of sampling distributions related to the normal distribution. These include estimation of parameters, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, regression analysis and least-squares estimators, correlation, design of experiments, analysis of variance, chi-square tests, and nonparametric statistics.

MAT 417 Industrial Mathematics. In this course students will complete mathematics projects derived from real-world problems. Students will work in groups on research problems given by local businesses, industry, and government (BIG). Students will interact in a business setting, manage deadlines, produce technical documents, and think critically to find solutions.

MAT 300 Foundations of Mathematics. This course develops the abstract thinking and the writing skills necessary for proof-oriented mathematics courses and surveys various areas of mathematics. Fundamental concepts and questions are studied from mathematical logic, abstract algebra, number theory, and real analysis. Further topics may include complex analysis, statistics, and graph theory.

FRE 265 The Québécois Enigma. This course explores the efforts of the Québécois to assert their language and identity through film. By utilizing classic and contemporary works, we will discover how the themes of abuse, abandonment, exclusion, family dysfunction, sex,  drugs and death reveal fundamental aspects  of Québécois culture.

CHE 131 General Chemistry-I. An introduction to modern ideas of atomic and molecular structure. Topics studied include stoichiometry, gas laws, electronic and nuclear structure of the atom, chemical bonding and molecular structure, and periodic properties of the elements. Laboratory work is required.

PHY 310 Modern Physics-I. A study of relativity, atomic and molecular structure, physics of the solid state, nuclear structure, quark theory, and associated phenomena. Laboratory work is required.
